DV500_61_SAS On Troubleshooting Storage Devices 
Self-Assessment Sheet

Q1. What does it mean when you see a message on the screen that says, "Cannot read from the source disk"? 
Ans:  This indicates a problem reading or writing information to the storage drive. And it could indicate that the storage drive has failed. 

Q2. What is the "click of death"? 
Ans: And if you’re using a hard drive, it could be that it’s making a loud clicking noise over and over again. We sometimes refer to this as the click of death. 

Q3. What should be done first when troubleshooting storage problems? 
Ans: To troubleshoot any of these types of storage problems, the first thing you should do if possible is to make a backup of all of the critical data on that drive. 

Q4. How can I check if my system is overheating? 
Ans: To troubleshoot any of these types of storage problems, the first thing you should do if possible is to make a backup of all of the critical data on that drive. 

Q5. What can a user do if their power supply does not have enough power for a storage drive? 
Ans: To troubleshoot any of these types of storage problems, the first thing you should do if possible is to make a backup of all of the critical data on that drive. 

Q6. What if you’re not sure if the problem is with the drive or something outside of the storage drive?
Ans. If you’re not sure if the problem is with the drive or something outside of the storage drive, you may want to run some hardware diagnostics of the drive itself.

Q7. What can the drive manufacturer provide to check the working components of a drive? 
Ans: Normally, the drive manufacturer can provide you with a set of diagnostics that will check all of the working components of that drive and be able to tell you whether the drive is operating properly or if there’s any errors.


Q8. What messages may occur when you boot your system? 
Ans:  You could get a message that says, drive not recognized or boot device not found. You might get lights that show access to the drive or there may be no lights showing any access to the drive. There could be beeping messages or there may be detailed error messages on the screen that you could use to reference that particular problem.


Q9. What lights may occur when you boot your system? 
Ans: You might get lights that show access to the drive or there may be no lights showing any access to the drive.

Q10. What does it mean when an operating system is not found during startup? 
Ans: This means the drive is there. But for some reason, we’re not able to find an operating system installed on that storage drive. 

Q11. What is the first step to troubleshoot this issue when an operating system is not found during startup?
Ans. To troubleshoot these types of problems, the first thing you should do is check the physical configuration. Do we have all the cables in place and are they properly attached to the drive into the motherboard.



Q12. The ____________maintains the list of priorities for all of the boot devices during startup.
Ans. BIOS

Q13. What is the sequence for booting up in a BIOS? 
Ans:  BIOS will first check the storage drive that’s at the top of the list. If there’s no operating system to be found there, it checks the next one on the list, and so on.

Q14. What should I check if my system is not booting? 
Ans:  You might also want to check inside the BIOS that you haven’t accidentally disabled any storage devices which would certainly prevent the system from booting.


Q15. What should you do if you are booting from a new storage drive? 
Ans: If you’re booting from a new storage drive, you’ll want to check the data and power cables to make sure that drive has physically been installed properly. And then if you have other SATA interfaces on your motherboard, you may want to try different interfaces to see if you can find one that may be operational. And ultimately, you might want to remove the SATA or M.2 drive from your system and try that drive in a different computer to see if it happens to work on another system.


Q16. What is a potential problem with hard drives? 
Ans: One problem with hard drives is that they are spinning mechanical systems.

Q17. What can happen if a solid state drive fails? 
Ans: A solid state drive might also fail. And you would not be able to read or write any data to that drive. But some SSDs can fail and still allow you to read the data but not write any new data to the drive.

Q18. What does RAID stand for?
Ans. Redundant Array of Independent Disks.

Q19. What is RAID? 
Ans:  it’s a common way to combine drives together to maintain uptime and availability of your data. 

Q20. How do you investigate a RAID controller failure? 
Ans: 


Q21. What can a RAID manager tell you? 
Ans: Usually, there is a RAID manager that can list out all of the drives in the system, tell you what types of models those drives might be, and can give you a status of the performance of each of those individual drives in the RAID array.


Q22. How many drives is required in RAID 0?
Ans. 2 or more drives

Q23. What happens if a single drive failure occurs in a RAID 0 array? 
Ans: But a single drive failure will break the array, and you will have data loss.


Q24. How many drives do you need for RAID 1? 
Ans: At Least 2 drives

Q25. What is the minimum number of drives required for RAID 5? 
Ans: 3 or more Drives

Q26. RAID 10, which you may see written as______________, requires _________________ drives. 
Ans. RAID 1 plus 0 and it requires 4 or more drives.

Q27. What is the full form of SMART? 
Ans: Self-Monitoring Analysis and Reporting Technology

Q28. What information is provided in SMART data? 
Ans: There is an amazing amount of diagnostic information inside of each storage drive using the standard of SMART.

Q29. How often will Mini RAID arrays perform their own checks? 
Ans: Mini RAID arrays will perform their own checks, either once a day, once a week, or once a month, and can give you an update on how well those drives are performing during that time.

Q30. What should be done when receiving a message that a drive is failing? 
Ans:  If you do receive a message that a drive happens to be failing, it’s time to back that data and replace that drive as soon as possible.

Q31.What are the different parts of your computer system that can be used to retrieve or store the data? 
Ans: There are so many different parts of your computer system that are used to retrieve or store that data. You have memory access. There’s communication across the bus, the drive itself– it’s a hard drive is physically spinning. And you may be writing or reading the data to different types of storage media. In every single one of those places, there could be delays or slowdowns associated with those processes. So we need some way to measure the overall performance of our storage devices.


Q32. What are some ways to measure the overall performance of our storage devices?
Ans. One way to do that is to measure the number of input/output operations per second or IOPS. This is a very broad perspective of how well we’re able to read and write data to that drive. But at least it gives us a standard to use across multiple drives and multiple systems. If you’re performing any type of drive diagnostics, then it’s probably going to give you statistics in IOPS.

Q33. IOPS stands for?
Ans. Input Output Operations per Second

Q34. How much IOPS can a hard drive achieve? 
Ans: 200 IOPS

Q35. What is the IOPS of a solid state drive? 
Ans: One Million IOPS.

Q36. How can we troubleshoot when certain drives are missing from the File Manager? Ans: we may want to check the BIOS, especially if the drive that’s missing happens to be physically located on our computer. 

Q37. If this is an external drive that’s connected via USB, then we want to be sure we have_____________ for the drive and that we’re connecting to the appropriate __________interface.
Ans. Power, USB

Q38. How do we reconnect a missing network share? 
Ans: We may have the option to reconnect that drive once we make that connection. Or we may want to run the login script again that will go through the process of mapping the appropriate drives.


