60_SAS_Troubleshooting Common Hardware Problems 

Q1. What does POST stand for?
Ans. Power On Self Test

Q2. What is the POST? 
Ans:  When you first turn on your PC, there are a series of diagnostic tests that occur. These occur in a matter of seconds. But they’re checking for very key components inside of your system. This power-on self-test or POST is designed to make sure that all of the main components of your system are available.

Q3. What happens if one of the components in a POST process is not working properly? 
Ans: If any of these components are missing or not working properly, you’ll hear a series of beeps and perhaps even see information shown on the screen detailing the problem that the POST found. 

Q4. What should you do if you want to know the different beep codes? 
Ans: you’ll want to look at the documentation for your motherboard, which will list every beep code and what that beep code is associated with.



Q5. The drives and their boot order are configured in the ___________ configuration.
Ans. BIOS 
 

Q6. What is the full form of BIOS?
Ans. Basic Input Output System

Q7. What is the function performed by the BIOS?
Ans. Another message you might see on the screen while you’re booting your system is that the date and time is either incorrect or has been reset. This is a function of the BIOS or basic input output system that’s responsible for keeping track of the date and time. 

Q8. What might happen if the battery has gone bad or all the voltage is depleted? 
Ans: And if that battery has gone bad or all of the voltage has been depleted, then the system will not have any idea what the date and time might be.

Q9.What should you do if you start your computer and get a blank screen?
Ans. If you start your computer and you get a blank screen with nothing else on the display, then you’ll want to listen to hear what those beeps are telling you. And those beep codes may tell you that you have a bad video adapter, maybe the memory is not installed in your system or it’s not working properly, or there’s no CPU or the CPU inside of the system has some type of fault. 

Q10. How do you fix other problems like if the system tries to boot from a drive that is not the normal startup drive?
Ans. Another problem you might see during startup is that your system tries to boot from a drive that is not the normal startup drive. The drives and their boot order are configured in the BIOS configuration. So you need to start your BIOS config. Look to see in which order these different boot drives are listed. And then, you’ll be able to either move these boot drives around or remove some from the list.


Q11. What do you need to do if you’ve left a USB drive plugged in and the USB drive attempts to boot prior to the primary storage drive?
Ans. It might also be the case that you’ve left a USB drive plugged in and the USB drive attempts to boot prior to the primary storage drive. In that case, you would simply need to remove the USB drive, restart your computer, and it will begin to boot from the normal boot drive.

Q12. What message will you get if something isn't working properly? 
Ans: Blue Screen of death

Q13. Windows Stop Error also refers to as a _______________________.
Ans. BSOD or Blue Screen of Death

Q14. What information do you receive while seeing the blue screen on your system?
Ans. This blue screen gives you information on why this particular error may have occurred.

Q15. If this blue screen goes by very quickly and your system restarts, you can still go to the ____________________.
Ans. Windows Event Viewer

Q16. How can you view the information associated with a Windows stop error? 
Ans: Go to the Windows Event Viewer to see all of the information associated with this Windows stop error.


Q17. What is the Event Viewer useful for? 
Ans: This is especially useful if you’re visiting a user who’s had this problem in the past. They didn’t write down any of the details on the screen. You can now go back to the Event Viewer to see exactly what happened at that time frame.

Q18. The reference pages on Microsoft’s website give a lot of detail on how you can resolve specific issues.( True/ False)
Ans. False

Q19. What should I do if my computer is displaying a blue screen error? 
Ans: you’ll have to restart your system to get your operating system running again.

Q20. Which websites can you use to research more about the Blue Screen Error?
Ans. Google

Q21.What are some potential causes of a blue screen? 
Ans: Bad Hardware, Bad Drivers or an application not working properly.

Q22. What will you do if your system is able to boot into Safe Mode but not able to boot into a full blown version of Windows?
Ans. You may find that your system is able to boot into Safe Mode but not able to boot into a full blown version of Windows. In that situation, it may help you narrow down where the actual problem may be occurring, since some drivers are loaded during Safe Mode and other drivers are not. If you’ve installed the new adapter card or any new hardware into your system, it might make sense to remove and reseat that component, just to make sure it’s making a good contact with the motherboard.


Q23. You can get a hardware diagnostics utility directly from the _____________.
Ans. manufacturer.

Q24. _______________will have hardware diagnostics built into the BIOS.
Ans. UEFI BIOS

Q25. What is the technical name for the spinning beach ball on Mac OS 10? 
Ans: Spinning ball of Death

Q26. What might happen when you see a spinning ball on your system and how to resolve it? 
Ans: This is giving you feedback that something is happening on the system. And whatever is happening has to complete before you are able to regain access to the operating system. In some cases, that’s spinning ball may appear for a moment. And then it will go back to the normal cursor. But there are times where the spinning ball will start but it will never stop. It will simply spin and spin. And you’ll never be able to regain access to the operating system. In those cases, you’ll have to completely power down the system and power back on to be able to log back into the OS.


Q27. What might cause a spinning beach ball to appear on your system? 
Ans: There are many reasons that a spinning weight cursor might appear on your system. It might be a bug in an application. You could have bad hardware, or bad memory, or it may be slow paging information out of memory and to the storage drive or back again.

Q28. What if the cursor never reappears and you have to restart your system?
Ans.  If the cursor never reappears and you have to restart your system, you’ll want to go to the console logs in Mac OS to see if you can find more information about why this particular error occurred.



Q29. What should you check when the screen of a desktop computer stays black?
Ans: When we first see a problem like this, one of the first things you should check is all of the cabling. Do we have a power cable plugged into the back of the monitor? And is it properly connected to the video output of your computer? 


Q30. What are the possible inputs to a monitor? 
Ans: VGA, HDMI or Display Port

Q31. How can you make a dim image on the screen brighter? 
Ans: Most monitors will have a brightness and contrast control. So you can adjust those to see if you can make that dim image a little bit brighter. 

Q32. What should you do if you see information on the screen but then everything goes black after Windows loads? 
Ans: Tell Windows to start in VGA Mode

Q33. __________________mode is able to work across almost every monitor on the market. 
Ans. VGA 

Q34. What tool can be used to check if an outlet is providing power to the power supply? 
Ans. MultiMeter

Q35. What should you look for when determining if a computer is receiving power? 
Ans: You also want to look very carefully to see if anything inside of that computer is receiving power.

Q36. What should we check to determine if there is a problem with the motherboard? 
Ans: We should check the power-on self-test process to see if it identifies any problems during the startup.

Q37. The fans that are inside of your system need a lot of voltage to spin. ( True/ False).
Ans. False

Q38. How can I get an overview of my computer's performance?
Ans. To be able to get an overview of performance, you may want to start Task Manager and view the CPU utilization for each individual process. There’s also a Performance tab. And clicking that brings up a list of CPU utilization for all processes on your computer. 

Q39. What could cause a system to become sluggish? 
Ans: If you are able to start your operating system but you’re still finding that it is very slow and sluggish to operate, then you might have a problem with a process or an application running on your system.

Q40. What can cause an operating system to perform poorly? 
Ans: If your storage drive is filling up and the operating system is not able to write files to that drive, this could also cause the operating system to perform poorly.


Q41. What happens if your desktop system’s temperature rises? 
Ans: And when temperature rises inside of your system, it will also begin to run the CPU slower so that your system will be able to cool down. 

Q42. What components generate heat in a computer system? 
Ans: Every component inside of your system is contributing to the overall heat that’s generated by your computer. 

Q43. How can you measure the temperature inside of a computer? 
Ans: you might want to use a third-party utility such as HWMonitor to be able to see exactly what the temperature is inside of your computer.


Q44. Why should electronic components be cleaned? 
Ans: To be able to properly perform the computing functions.

Q45. What if your backside of the system has a lot of dust and produces a heat, how will you resolve this issue?
Ans. To solve this problem, we’ll want to vacuum up all of the dust that’s on the back of this system so that we can regain an airflow through the computer case.

Q46. What could be causing my computer to abruptly power down? 
Ans:  It may be a single component on your system that is failing and causing the entire system to abruptly power down.

Q47. What should you do after eliminating items that are working properly? 
Ans: Once you eliminate items that are working properly, you can move your focus towards devices that may not be working correctly and perform additional diagnostics of those components.

Q48. What message might you receive when Windows has identified a problem? 
Ans: There may be times when Windows has identified a problem, but it has no information on what the problem might actually be. And you might get a message like this that says, Windows Explorer has stopped working. And Windows is checking to see if it has identified why this particular problem occurred.


Q49. What is the Reliability Monitor? 
Ans: Another great utility inside of Windows is the Reliability Monitor. This will take all of the information that’s been saved in your Event Viewer and provide you with a graphical overview of how your system has been performing. This will break down day by day how your system has been performing. And it separates out the problems into application failures, Windows failures, and other issues. If you think the problem is related to a specific application, you might want to try uninstalling that application and then reinstalling the latest version of that app on your system

Q50. What could be causing a scraping noise inside my system? 
Ans: If you have a hard drive inside of your system, it could be that the scraping noise is coming from the hard drive itself. That is certainly a very bad error to have on a hard drive. And hopefully you have some backups that you can use to restore any data that may have been lost.

Q51. What happens if a capacitor is damaged? 
Ans: The top of the damaged Capacitor bulges out.

Q52. : What is a very frustrating error that can occur in an operating system and how will you resolve that? 
Ans: One very frustrating error that can occur in an operating system is that everything suddenly freezes. The mouse doesn’t move, nothing changes on the screen. But there’s no error messages giving you any feedback as to why your system is suddenly frozen up. When the system freezes this way, look for anything that may be still responding to you. Look for any hard drive lights, maybe they are status lights on the front of the computer. Maybe you could hit the number lock button and see if that button is toggling on and off. Or try hitting Control Alt Delete to see if you can regain access to the operating system.


Q53. What if you’ve recently installed a new driver or updated any part of your operating system?
Ans. So if you’ve installed new hardware or installed new drivers, it may be that those new additions are causing this lock-up issue. You’ll also want to see how the resource utilization might be on your system.

Q54.How can you prevent your computer from automatically restarting after a stop error or blue screen? 
Ans: In those situations, you need to document where the actual reboot process is occurring. Do we have BIOS messages that are appearing on the screen? Do we see a Windows splash screen as it’s starting up? Do we see any part of the operating system as its beginning? This might help you determine if the issue is related to the configuration of your BIOS or if there’s something in the operating system that’s preventing it from booting properly.


Q55. What is the best way to reset the BIOS configuration? 
Ans: These days the BIOS configuration is written to flash memory that’s on the motherboard. And if you want to remove or erase that flash memory configuration, you’ll need to short a jumper and restart your system.


