DV500_2_SAS On Laptop Hardware
Self-Assessment Sheet


1. What does it mean to be modular? 
Ans: Modular means which is easily removable.
2. What type of battery technology do we use today?
Ans: Li-Ion or Li-Po

3. What happens each time you charge a battery?
Ans: It diminishes the battery with every single charge.

4. What is one advantage to using a modular battery configuration?
Ans: We can install a new fully charged battery when the installed one on Laptop is completely drained.

5. True or False? lithium-ion batteries are designed to be 80 percent charged. 
Ans: False

6. True or False? In lithium-ion batteries, discharging some of the battery and charging it back up again you have to worry about causing a effect on memory or limiting the amount of capacity that battery might have.
Ans: False

7. Where are all the programs that are executing in your operating system executing?
Ans

8. What does SO-DIMM stand for?
Ans: Small Outline - Dual Inline Memory Module

9. Where is SO-DIMM usually used?
Ans : Modern Laptops

10.  Are you able to change/upgrade memory for a device that has it soldered to the motherboard?
Ans : No. We cannot.

11.  In what form do older laptops have storage in?
Ans: Spinning Physical Drive 
 

12.  In what form do new laptops have storage?
Ans : SSD’s or M2’s

13.  What is one advantage of SSD?
Ans : Read and Write speeds are much faster compared to traditional HD’s.

14.  What is one way you can migrate from a hard drive to an SSD
Ans : Image/Clone the HDD and move the data to SSD.
15.  What are some types of authentications?
Ans :  

16. What is one disadvantage of laptop keyboard?
Ans: As the laptops are becoming smaller there’s very less space for Keyboard.

17.  What is NFC?
Ans  Near Field Communication

18. What does NFC allow you to do?
Ans: It allows you to connect to nearby NFC devices wirelessly.
19.  Is m.2 a modular setup?
Ans: Yes

20. M.2 interface on an SSD drive is larger than traditional SATA-connected SSD? True or False?
Ans  False







