DV500_5_SAS Mobile Device Accessories
Self-Assessment Sheet

1. If you are someone who takes your laptop back and forth between work and home, what’s a good solution for you to minimize all the plugging and unplugging of cables used for devices such as printers, keyboards etc.?
Ans : By using a Docking station.

2. What does TRRS stand for? 
Ans: Tip-ring-ring-sleeve

3. What is one of the challenges our mobile phones and tablets have with speakers that are built in?
Ans: The speakers are very small.

4. What are the functions of a stylus?
Ans: It allows you to activate the screen without physically touching it.

5. Can you disable the mouse track pad on your laptop while using an external mouse?
Ans: Yes, we can disable.

6. If you need to perform very precise functions or be able to do something very specific on the screen, you may want to try using?
Ans: A Touch Pen.

7. If you’re an artist or someone who wants to perform more precise work on a tablet, you may want to try using an?
Ans: An Active or Digital Stylus

8. A digital stylus provides you with more functionality and more precise usability than something like a capacitive touch pen. True or False?
Ans: True

9. The stylus is not able to communicate independently with the device that’s being used if those two devices are not touching each other. True or False?
Ans: False
 
10.  If you’re using an Apple iPad, you would need to use what type of pen?
Ans: Apple Pencil.

11.  Using an active stylus you can see as the user is writing on the screen and they apply a little more pressure, then you can see that the difference in the line width changes. True or False?
Ans: True

12.  What if you’re using a computer that doesn’t have any type of capacitive display or any type of active touchscreen that you can interact with?
Ans: Use an Active stylus with an External Digitizer.

13.  Do laptops include an external mouse?
Ans: No.

14.  Can you add an external keyboard and mouse on a Mac?
Ans: Yes, you can.

15. Can you customize exactly the way the trackpad works on your system?
      Ans: Yes, we can.
16.  What does TRRS do?
Ans:  It takes the audio signal from the microphone and sends it to the device connected and sends the speaker signal to the speaker on the headsets.

17. If you’re an Apple user, you may not have the option of a USB or a 3- and 1/2-millimeter audio connection. True or False?
Ans: True

18.  What port does apple have?
Ans: Lightning port

19.  What’s one alternative method an apple user can connect to headphones without the 3.5 mm jack?
Ans: Bluetooth Headset

20.  If you like a simpler form of connecting and disconnecting your laptop, you may want to use something like?
      Ans: A Docking station or Port Replicator
