27_SAS_On Video Cables
Self-Assessment Sheet

Q1. What does VGA stand for?
Ans. Video Graphics Array

Q2.  What is the name of the connector associated with the VGA video format? 
Ans: DB-15

Q3. What are the PC System Design Guide Standards? 
Ans: The PC System Design Guide (also known as the PC-97, PC-98, PC-99, or PC 2001 specification) is a series of hardware design requirements and recommendations for IBM PC compatible personal computers, compiled by Microsoft and Intel Corporation during 1997–2001. They were aimed at helping manufacturers provide hardware that made the best use of the capabilities of the Microsoft Windows operating system, and to simplify setup and use of such computers.

Q4. What color is associated with VGA? 
Ans: Blue

Q5. If I am connecting a monitor using a VGA connection, do I need to have a separate audio connection? 
Ans: Yes

Q6. What happens when you extend a VGA signal beyond 5 to 10 meters? 
Ans: Image degrades

Q7. What type of signal is a VGA signal? 
Ans: Analog Signal

Q8. What type of connector is the VGA connector on the back of a computer? 
Ans: 15 Pin Connector

Q9. What type of connection is HDMI? 
Ans: All Digital

Q10. What does HDMI stand for?
Ans. High-Definition Multimedia Interface

Q11. What type of connector is used with HDMI? 
Ans: 19-pin (Type A) Connector

Q12. What types of video output does this video adapter support? 
Ans: 

Q13. What is DisplayPort? 
Ans. DisplayPort is another video standard. It is a digital standard and is able to send packetized video and audio signals over these DisplayPort cables.

Q14. What are the two types of DisplayPort interfaces? 
Ans: Display Port and Mini Display Port

Q15. How do you remove a DisplayPort interface? 
Ans: If you’re using the larger DisplayPort interface, you’ll notice that there are hooks connected to this particular interface that lock that into place. So you can’t simply pull it out of a DisplayPort interface.

Q16. Is DisplayPort passively compatible with HDMI? 
Ans:Yes. It is.

Q17. What type of cable is needed to connect a computer with a DisplayPort interface to a monitor with an HDMI interface?
Ans: Display Port to HDMI Converter.

Q18. What does DVI stand for? 
Ans: Digital Visual Interface

Q19. How much throughput does a single link connection support? 
Ans: 3.7 Gbps - Single Link ; 7.4 Gbps - Dual Link

Q20. What does a dual link connection allow us to view? 
Ans: HD TV.

Q21. What type of signals does DVI support? 
Ans: Both Analog and Digital signals.

Q22. DVI is a video connection that pass any audio signals through the DVI connection. (True/False)
Ans. false.
 
