DV500_48_SAS On Laser Printer Maintenance 
Self-Assessment Sheet
Q1. What is one of the most common maintenance processes on a laser printer? 
Ans: One of the most common maintenance processes on a laser printer is replacing the toner cartridge.

Q2. The toner cartridge contains the ___________and in some cases, the ___________that’s used during the printing process.
Ans. Toner and Photosensitive drum

Q3. Can you use a printer if you receive a message like “ The Toner is Getting Low”?
Ans. Yes

Q4. What does OPC stand for?
Ans. Organic Photoconductor

Q5. What is included with the toner cartridge? 
Ans.OPC Drum

Q6. Why do toner cartridges come wrapped in a package? 
Ans: You’ll notice the toner cartridges often come wrapped in a package that doesn’t allow any sunlight to get in. And that’s probably because the OPC is also included with that toner cartridge. 

Q7. How do you replace a toner cartridge? 
Ans: Replacing the cartridge is relatively straightforward. You would power down the printer. Usually you have to open the printer to gain access to the cartridge itself and then simply remove the old cartridge and replace it with the new cartridge.


Q8. What should you do before putting a new cartridge into the printer? 
Ans: Before putting the new cartridge into the printer, you want to make sure that all the packing strips or anything that’s used to seal the cartridge has been removed so it’s able to be used by the printer.

Q9. How do I replace a toner cartridge in my laser printer? 
Ans: If you’re replacing a toner cartridge in your laser printer, it’s usually best practice to keep that cover in place and prevent any light from getting to that photosensitive drum.

Q10. What type of maintenance might be necessary for a laser printer? 
Ans: Usually there is a laser printer maintenance kit that you can get from the manufacturer of the printer that gives you all of the parts that you might want to replace during one of these maintenance tasks.


Q11. ________________are complex pieces of machinery with a lot of moving parts on the inside. 
Ans. Laser Printers

Q12. Where can one get a laser printer maintenance kit? 
Ans: From the manufacturer of the printer

Q13. How often should you perform maintenance tasks on a laser printer? 
Ans:  it’s usually based on the number of pages that are printed by that printer.

Q14. What does a laser printer maintenance kit typically include? 
Ans: These will usually have feed rollers inside, a new fuser unit, or anything else that may get worn on that printer over time. 

Q15. What should you do before working inside of a laser printer? 
Ans: Of course, before working inside of a laser printer, you want to power off and remove that power source.

Q16. What should you be careful of when working with the fuser assembly inside a printer? 
Ans: It’s also important if this printer has recently been used that there are parts inside of this printer that will be very hard to the touch, especially if you’re working with the fuser assembly. So you want to be very careful with what you’re touching inside of this printer so that you can avoid any burns.

Q17. What do you have to do once you’re done replacing feed rollers and the other parts of the maintenance kit?
Ans. And once you’re done replacing feed rollers and the other parts of the maintenance kit, make sure that you reset the page counter so when the next maintenance update may be required.


Q18. What might happen when replacing a toner cartridge? 
Ans: There may be times when you replace a toner cartridge, and you notice that all of the subsequent output looks a little different than the original toner cartridge. It may be printing too dark or too light. So you may need to calibrate the printer to get exactly the right density of toner.


Q19. How can you calibrate the printer to get the right density of toner? 
Ans: There’s usually a calibration option inside of the printer that will create some output. And then it will ask you to make some changes based on what the printed page looks like on the printer. And sometimes the calibration process can be completely automatic.

Q20. What can you use to clean a laser printer? 
Ans: The documentation for the printer will give you information on how you can properly clean the inside and outside of the printer. But some good best practices are to use water and isopropyl alcohol, which is often abbreviated as IPA. 

Q21. What should you avoid using when cleaning a laser printer? 
Ans:  You don’t want to use any harsh chemicals or commercial cleaners when cleaning a laser printer.


Q22. How should you clean the outside of the printer? 
Ans: To clean the outside of the printer, you want to use a damp cloth with cold water. 

Q23. How should you clean the inside of the printer? 
Ans: And when working on the inside of the laser printer, you can also use a damp cloth with cold water. And if you use a vacuum, you want to use a vacuum that is specifically designed to vacuum toner.

Q24. What should you use to clean the rubber rollers inside of a laser printer? 
Ans: you’ll want to clean those with isopropyl alcohol or cold water.



Q25. A normal vacuum cleaner is designed for the very fine toner that’s inside of a laser printer. (True/ False)
Ans. False.
